Hi everyone, my name is Kurt, and today I'll be going
over my network attached storage device — my home lab.
Basically, on my NAS I have TrueNAS running as the
operating system.
On the dashboard you can see some general information
here — the system information panel.
It's running the Community Edition of TrueNAS, which is
all free by the way. The version is 25.10.4.
You can see my hostname, the uptime being kept, and the
IP address right here — 192.168, so a local address on
my network.
Then you can see the CPU temperatures per core, and CPU
usage per core — it's not really using much, around 0%
average.
I'm running an i7, and I think the most I hit recently
was about 4%, right there.
Then on the right-hand side you can see memory and
storage.
Under memory we have 23.4 gigabytes total available.
Free memory available is 14.9 gigs. On the right-hand
side you'll see storage — about 23 terabytes, with
21.45 terabytes free.
On the left-hand side you can view a whole bunch of other
things — datasets, storage, virtual machines, apps.
There's a lot in here, but today we'll be going over just
the basics.
For the apps I have running, there are three implemented
here.
I plan on implementing virtual machines as well, like
Kali Linux, to have more fun with. And on Jellyfin I have
my own media server.
It's free open source software. All three of these apps
are free — anyone can use this.
So if you're setting up a home lab, definitely worth
looking into.
Jellyfin is more like Netflix. Think of it like Disney
Plus, Netflix,
Hulu, Paramount Plus — all these apps you'd normally pay
a subscription for. You're doing all that for free.
Basically, you have your own MP4 files, your own media
files.
You go into Jellyfin, open the web user interface, and
it asks you for a login. After you log in, think of it
like Netflix.
You have any sort of media you want to watch — but
instead of a full catalog,
you use the files you already own, and watch them without
ads.
Any videos you already have, you can just watch them
through Jellyfin.
And on Nextcloud, I have my own cloud server — just like
Dropbox.
Any documents, videos, or files you want to put into your
own cloud server, that's what you use it for.
Except it's Nextcloud, and it's free.
On the right-hand side you can see general information,
notes, workloads, and application metadata.
Scroll down and you'll see a bit more general information
about the app. Same for the other two.
Any apps you implement, you'll see general information
about them. It's all free — go to truenas.com and check
the catalog.
Now if I go into Pi-hole and open the application info,
I'm going to open the web user interface and go a bit
more in depth,
since I implemented this fairly recently.
In Pi-hole you have total queries at the top, queries
blocked, the percentage blocked, and domains on list.
Pi-hole blocks ads and trackers from domains.
This is the main dashboard. If I scroll down, you'll see
clients and clients blocked.
You can see permitted and blocked domains here on the
right-hand side.
Honestly, a lot of the domains are fine — we don't have
to block that much.
But if I go into the query log and turn on live update,
it shows me in real time what's happening.
It just keeps moving. Looks like it blocked two more from
Epic Games, and one from Microsoft.
We have a secure connection here from Cloudflare. A lot
of this is looking pretty good.
If I go to the second page, you can see
options to deny or allow access on the right-hand side.
So if something gets blocked and you want to allow it,
you just press allow on one of the red ones. And if
something is being allowed
that you want to block, you press deny. Let's go back and
look at
all the apps you can use on TrueNAS through their catalog.
You can see LLMs and AI software, and recently updated
apps — looks like they updated a smart home one, that's
interesting.
Authentication, single sign-on, backups, cameras,
databases, development, finance, fitness,
games — there's a lot in here. When you click one, it
shows you an install option.
Let's do the fitness one. If I go to Sparky Fitness and
press install, you'd open the web UI just like I did with
Pi-hole, and you're all set.
I plan on implementing a lot more apps, but for my home
lab it's mostly these three for now,
plus a local LLM running on my laptop through Ollama.
And that's mostly it for my home lab. Thanks for watching!